BEING WORKED ON:



ABSOLUTELY CRITICAL:

* Lives? Game over?
    The problem with having multiple lives is that when player dies, they have
    no feathers left. If we start the next life with only 3 feathers, in the
    middle of the same (hard) level they were at, then player may be too weak
    in the flapping department, and game may be too hard for lives 2..n
    
    Needs some thought. Maybe collected feathers correspond to lives or health
    and we just call it game over when player dies?


* packaging:
    Binary exe for Windows (use py2exe, pyinstall, ?)
    Check that our source distribution works out of the box on machines
        with python26, (do we rely on external pyglet being installed?)
    Lower priority:
        Binary exe for Mac (not *crucial* for PyWeek, would be nice eventually)
        Can PyInstall create a binary for linux too? That includes correct
        version of Python and dependencies?


REALLY NICE TO HAVE:

* Enemies spawn in waves.
    a 'Get Ready' before each wave?
    Each wave contains one more enemy.
    Within a wave, bird N starts with N feathers
    Next wave starts a couple of seconds after the all enemies are gone.


* Sound effects.
    Mostly comical quacking and quiet flapping.
    Quacks of gradually increasing pitch and excitement as the player
        collects more consecutive feathers


* improve accuracy of collision detection
    Pixel perfect would be nice, but can we do it in time?
    I wouldn't mind if things (esp birds) had to overlap a smidgeon before they
    were considered to collide. Better that than having a visible gap.


* Collecting feathers improves flap power
    maybe highest number of consecutive collections should determine flap power
    Later levels offer more enemies/feathers, hence scope for higher
    number of consecutive collections
    would be nice if collecing feathers did the same things for enemies that
        it does for the player
        

* Display player's current flap power
    As a HUD graphic - a pic of a wing gets feathers added to it?


* Combos
    killing an enemy increments multiplier for a few seconds
    display multiplier if it is >1
    attacking an enemy increases duration of current multiplier


* floating numbers on screen for point-scoring events


* Enemy behaviour
    They should fly slower when they have fewer feathers
    They should attack you.
        eg. When directly above the player, just stop flapping.
            (a first approximation of this is checked in)
        More likely when they have more feathers.
    They should run away when attacked
    They should change altitude or direction every once in a while
    They should chase feathers


* polish the programmer art
    enemies are different color depending on number of feathers
    feathers are the color of the bird they came from? (then you can identify
        your own feathers, which currently are not pick-up-able.)


* load all images in a graphics module at startup, rather than in gameent
  constructor, then create sprites from that.
  (we currently reload images every time we spawn a bird, etc. Presumably
  they are cached, but still)
    * use a single image full of sprites ('spritesheet' in pyglet parlance),
      rather than one image per sprite


* try a profiler, see where it bogs down when lots is on screen
    sprite rendering could be batched for performance


* choose music
    Everyone should put forward any proposed CC licensed tunes they fancy
    Should we just pick one and play it repeatedly?
    How about track 9 from here:
       http://www.ptesquad.com/more/pte018.html 


* Sequence of events on startup:
    Display title "Sinister Ducks" in centre
    wait for 2 secs or for keypress
    if a control (left, right, flap) is pressed, remove the title
    player falls from sky
    Instructions continuously display controls
    wait for player to have used (left or right) and flap
    Remove instructions
    Spawn first wave
    Next wave scheduled when no enemies remain.


* Display instructions during game according to wave:
    1: Birds: 1f
        Attack enemies from above to get their feathers
        Collect feathers for points
    2: Birds: 1f 2f
        Enemies will attack you from above
        Avoid diving enemies
    3: Birds: 1f 2f 3f
        Chain feather collection for more points
        Don't let enemies attack you from above


* Key to toggle music.
    Display this in the instructions.


* Clouds
    Do nothing except float across the screen, obscuring what is behind them.
    These aren't as much value as platforms, but sure would be easy to code.
    Maybe introduce a new cloud every three waves


* Display green landscape at bottom of screen
    Player and enemies land on this, not at absolute bottom of screen


* sky colors fade in day/night cycle
    stars come out?


* Collecting many feathers gives extra abilities
    More than 10: Press down to dive.
    Enemies should be able to use this too.


* Platforms
    Would be nice
    But is a bunch of work.
    Affects collisions, behaviour, gameplay, graphics, etc.
    Are they worth it?


* High scores
    Displayed after user dies, until next game starts
    Persisted, in 'All Users/AppData' or equivalent

